This lecture is just to point
you to some data resources so
you might be able to get some free data,
and do some of analysis,
if you don't happen to have any at
the organization that you're at.
So this website consists of data from
a variety of national organizations.
So we can start off with
the United Nations data sets,
which are at this website, and
then you can find data that are available
from the United States at data.gov.
And you can go to this blog post to
find a bunch of other cities and
states within the United States
that have open data.
There's also a lot more information
on a variety of other countries and
this website down here
data.gov/opendatasites actually gives
information on data sites for
other countries all around the world.
So that's a good place to start if you
don't know if your country has
an open government data site.
Gapminder is another
website that has a lot of
data about development in
particular in human heath.
And so there's a large number
of datasets that are available
on that website which is Gapminder.org.
You can also get survey data
from the United States.
This website here gives you a lot of
information about how do you actually
access the surveys and process them in R.
So it's actually really nice because the
surveys are often very big and unwieldy,
and this website gives you a lot of
information on how to access them.
The Infochimps Marketplace
has a bunch of different
data sets which you can sort
by various different tags, and
you can identify data sets that
might be of interest to you.
Some of them are free, and
some of them cost money.
Kaggle is another place that
you can go to for data sets.
So Kaggle is a company that offers data
science competitions, and they often have
very interesting data sets that they make
available as part of those competitions.
So they're good for practice, but they're
also good for potentially discovering new,
interesting things that can help
companies solve real problems.
There's also some collections that
have been put together by famous data
scientists.
So these are several data scientists.
Hilary Mason, Jeff Hammerbacher,
and others who have
put together data sets that are research
quality and that might be useful for you.
These all come from this blog post which
talks about several other data sets,
they're curated by other
data scientists as well.
There are also a large variety of other,
more specialised collections.
So for example, the Stanford
Large Network Data Archive has
a large number of data sets that focus
on network data, machine learning,
the UCI Machine Learning archive has
a variety of data sets that can be used to
practice your classification or
predictions.
The CMU Statlib is one of the most
famous canonical sets of data sets that
are available.
Gene Expression Omnibus is focused on
data sets that come from human genomic
experiments or
other organismal genomics experiments.
And then there's data from the ArXiv or
public datasets on Amazon web services.
Finally, there a large number of APIs
that you've now learned how to use,
through the course of this class.
And so, for example, there's specific
packages such as the twitter package which
can be used to access the Twitter API,
in an easier way than trying to
set up a application yourself.
You can similarly get
access to figshare data or
to data from publications like Plos one.
rOpenSci has a large number of very
nice packages that allow you to access
data from a variety of sources
that are focused on academics.
There's also dedicated R packages for
Facebook and Google Maps.
All of these mean that there is really no
excuse to not be able to find real data to
focus on any project that
you might be interested in.